Amos Gilead is a retired Major General
with the Israel Defense Forces and an
intelligence and Military expert and I
asked him earlier what steps he expected
Israel to take
next no I'm not assessing what the Prime
Minister will do I think that uh we need
to keep our privilege of course
to to have the right operation in due
time anyway we are in war with Iran Iran
using PR Proxes in order to attack us
from all sides of Israel and Iran itself
is very hostile not only to Israel to
the whole region and to the Western
Civilization if I may say and there
threshold
nuclear power so generally speaking Iran
is very hostile Rogue State and it's one
stage of this ongoing struggle that's
the way we need to see it me should
respon or not
sorry what should a response look like
then without risking a major regional
conflict what does it mean first of all
we have been attacked I mean we need to
respond but in due time and in ways it
will serve our national security
interest it does not mean we need to
react immediately we can take time we
can be tolerant we can be I mean it's a
matter of wisdom also yeah we don't need
to do what they are expecting us to
do that was am gillad speaking to us
earlier well Marina Moran a military
analyst from King's College in London
also gave us her view on what could be
Israel's next steps good day Nicole it's
a very difficult question because we
don't know how Israel will react and
indeed on the one hand we have a lot of
international pressure most notably from
the United States but also from Germany
the United Kingdom on Israel to
basically not respond and the Allies
made it very clear that they will not be
involved in any Counterattack on Iran on
the other hand um for Benjamin Netanyahu
now this is a huge problem because he
has hardliners which are important to
his political future who are saying that
israels has to resonate throughout the
Middle East Israel has to respond and to
respond heavily in order to reestablish
its own deterrent which has been eroded
after the October 7th attacks so it it's
a very difficult situation specifically
because if Israel is to retaliate
heavily against Iran there is no
certainty that the Allies will come to
help a second time and of course um it
also puts into question the allegiance
of of um the gulf countries who have
allegedly helped um Jordan has helped we
know that but some of the others like
the UAE and Saudi Arabia they tried to
kind of distance themselves from this
but still they provided intelligence and
so they will have to be choosing between
Israel and Iran in a sense of course
they are no friends of Iran but this
will be a very difficult situation for
them giv the power dynamics that exist
in the Middle East yeah so it remains to
be seen which way Israel goes yeah but
behind closed doors you know whatever
analysts you speak to it seems like
neither Iran nor Israel seem to be all
too interested in an allout War this
looks like we're in an eye for an eye
situation though with neither side
wanting to be seen as weak how big do
you consider the danger of this
spiraling further out of
control well the problem here is that
Iran didn't want an allout War it wanted
to withdraw the red lines and this
strike which many said oh it was a
strategic failure for Iran was actually
a very smart strategic move because
without causing any destruction it
managed to withraw that red line now for
Israel Israel cannot afford a war right
now because it's already at War and it
depends on the support of the Allies
most notably the United States in order
to achieve its objectives in Gaza so
neither of them want a war but neither
of them want to risk their reputation
and specifically Israel which believes
to be surrounded by enemies and we don't
know how far the Abram Accords will go
in this sense because um because of the
October 7th attacks everything has been
put on hold so Israel has to demonstrate
its strengths in order to deter those
potential enemies such as Hezbollah for
instance or ansara the hoodis in Yemen
to not attack Israel so there can be
also a miscalculation for instance
imagine that attack that Iran launched
would have led to death of civilians on
Israeli soil if not everything had been
shut down so there is a risk of also the
these unknowns that could lead to an
escalation without either side Wan one
yeah a rather big unknown is Iran's
nuclear program we know that it is
evolving we don't really know where it
stands how much should that factor into
Israel's calculations
here well I think it will factor in a
lot if we remember that Israel has
already made an attempt to undermine it
um back then when launching stock net
but um the problem here is that this
time Israel might be more tempted to
strike directly at military targets and
nuclear facilities within Iran and for
Iran of course this is exactly why Iran
doesn't want the war because it wants to
finish its nuclear program develop
nuclear weapons in order to have a solid
deterrent against Israel and against the
United States so certainly that will be
something that is factored in that being
said we don't know how Iran will respond
then should Israel launch any direct
strike on Iranian nuclear facilities or
maybe there will be a more covered way
to try to undermine it we're joined Now
by Yogen hot he's the foreign policy
spokesperson for the opposition
conservative CDU in the German
Parliament thank you so much for joining
DW Mr Hunt Germany always says it has
this profound historical responsibility
to Israel's defense and yet it didn't
join the US UK France and Jordan in
helping shoot down these Iranian drones
and missiles over the weekend now should
Germany prepare to do that if tensions
keep
Rising first of i' like to state that uh
we we are very much impressed about the
way the israelian were able to um defeat
that attack from the night before last
night together with allies from
different countries but also from some
AR with some Arab states we talk about
Jordan probably also Saudi Arabia were
supporting that and that is a huge
political progress and this is a huge
political Capital now for Israel on its
side to see that there are friends also
in the Arabian World Arab world that are
supporting Israel in its need for defend
and therefore Israel should have all
into account not only saying what is our
answer but also having in mind what
others uh uh um see on that all right
back to my question though does Germany
exactly do should they take on a more
active role in helping Israel defend
itself in these kinds of
attacks uh I would like to ask that our
government probably we can do it behind
closed doors because not everything can
put on the table probably in in public
speeches but from my point of view first
if Israel is asking for armed and AR
Armament and ammunition from Germany
Germany should stay to its commitment
and deliver weapons to Israel to make
sure that Israel is able to defend
itself second if Israel sees uh the
chance that Germany can support um
Israel by defending and maybe to be well
repair in case that something like
happened two nights ago can happen again
Germany should be open-minded on that
and the do bundus should be involved as
it is necessary with the Mandate we have
two options we have this friger in the
Red Sea um the Frat hessen she's now
close to going back to Germany due to
the systematic of that mandate but we
also have um air fueling capabilities in
Jordan with the German Armed Forces
German air force both probably is maybe
feasible but there if there is no demand
from Israel we should not use that in
that way probably it's better for
Germany to have a role that way we
replace um um needs of of short shortage
from our allies like UK or great or or
us in the region or in Europe because if
they fight for for Israel that we can
replace that what they are doing in the
region on other fields for example in
the anti- Das mandate we have if Israel
asked for for more support from Germany
for example by by reinforcing that frig
that you mentioned that is already in
the Red Sea would you willing to be the
person to put that forward in the bundes
would you actively push for
that among friends it's uh clear for me
that we should take every um demand of
Israel to us serious and that we should
judge on that in a way prob ID idly in a
way that all Democratic parties since
the do bundist support that and I can
state that I am open-minded and I think
Al my political group CDU is open-minded
to every concrete um demand I didn't see
that at the moment but I will not
exclude that for for the future among
friends all should be put on the table
and discussed all right that was foreign
policy spokesperson yugen hot for the
CDU and the German bundist talk thank
you so much for your
time and we can dig a Little Deeper now
with Middle East expert Daniel G Daniel
welcome to the show so how much has the
status quo in the Middle East changed
over the past couple of days over this
weekend well I think it has dramatically
changed but still it's following certain
rules which is quite interesting um the
Iranians notified uh the Arab neighbors
and made sure that the US would be
notified in time they they gave is the
time to prepare for this but
nevertheless the Iranians took an
enormous risk they they jeopardized the
life of hundreds of Israeli citizens
probably because they could not rely on
the Israeli air defense to fend off this
attack um on the other hand the ball is
now in the Israeli field uh the
Netanyahu government uh announced that
it will respond and I think it will it
will take some time because it's not in
a hurry to responds because it's been
basically Victorious at the moment and
not only it it it managed to defend off
this attack but but also politically it
managed to to Rally around the flag
again to unite the Allies behind Israel
and you see like uh I mean the
statements of Yogen har indicate that
very much it seems to me almost as if
Germany and large parts of the western
Camp are almost relieved about this
crisis to happen because it it takes
away the attention of the from from the
Gaza war from the ongoing War that's uh
that's that's costing the lives of
Palestinians every day the dramatic
situation in the West Bank and now
everyone who found it more and more
difficult to to to sell their position
on Israel to their own public to their
own constituency can now say we stand
behind Israel in this in this
existential crisis for the country so
this unprecedented attack could end up
playing into netanyahu's hands is what
you're saying absolutely I think he I
think he he he even provoked this you
know Netanyahu is is really the master
of the game here he he he has a tendency
towards brinkmanship since recently like
the years before he has been in
international politics for a long time
and he always tried to avoid a
confrontation but in the last couple of
months he has been like pushing for this
he has been provoking the Iranians and
he was of course ready and he knew that
the Iranians would respond to this um
and uh I think he managed to take the
risk to achieve the effect uh and at the
same time uh it didn't cost a single
Israeli life so far so uh we see that
he's really playing this masterfully and
though everyone involved knows
this uh they're still like supporting
him at the moment yeah so the Allies are
are back on his side right now but they
are urging restraint all of them nobody
wants to see an allout war in the Middle
East who has the leverage to
actually get him there or is it really
also not in netanyahu's interest to see
this spiraling out of control um out of
control that's exactly the point um all
the conflict parties are trying to push
this really to the boundaries and to
push the boundaries but to make make
sure that they're not losing control and
they could lose control if the
escalation went too far and everyone is
is is is who is involved knows about
this I think the US are really returning
to the role of a powerful broker in the
Middle East because ironically let's say
in this confrontation with Iran the US
almost is in mediating position the US
seems now strong and powerful and
influential uh but they're not a
conflict party I mean of course
indirectly they are on the side of
Israel but they appear to be a more
mediating power but we should look a bit
at the role of the Arab states also in
the region because I think the Arab
states are playing an interesting and
also constructive role like to the
majority regardless if it's uh Saudi
Arabia Jordan or even Iraq who made it
abundantly clear that they do not want a
regional escalation because they would
be the ones who would suffer from it and
they don't want to distract the
attention away from the plight of the
Palestinians and of course they are very
much acting in their own self-interest
and they want to stabilize their own
power and they need stability and they
need quiet for that a lot of um leaders
are now calling for sanctions on Terran
to kind of ramp up the pressure can that
really make a difference in all of this
well if you talk about a lot of leaders
then you're probably referring to a lot
of Western leaders um and I think the
global reality is a bit a different one
than from what we've seen 10 years ago
when the Iran nuclear deal was struck I
think at the moment we're in a situation
where Iran not only for the first time
in its history has something that comes
close to to military ally which is
Russia and others um and we have a
global reality in which large parts of
the global South are actually not on the
Iranian side but consider the Iranians
as being in the defensive here and I
think this this the the Iranians have
been have been benefiting from this
change of narrative on the global level
to a great extent and they have China
and other Global players the brics
countries that are willing to not if not
to support Iran but uh definitely not to
condemn it so when you talk about
sanctions you have to be very specific
the the Western sanctions have been very
strong and uh on on Iran and the and
trade has gone down to a pretty minimum
level at the moment and then if you talk
about sanctions you should also ask the
people in Iran who are not at all
involved in the politics of this regime
what they think about it if you really
want to suffocate the Iranian economy
more than it already is ask the human
rights defendants the women that have
been rising up two years ago if this is
in their interest I doubt that to be
honest but this they shouldn't give any
Prejudice on a careful study about the
impact of San
that was Daniel G thank you so much
thank you